>>: I'm Robert Grant,
and this is The Code X.
[THEME MUSIC]
The Last Supper painting
by Leonardo da Vinci
is one of the most
famous pieces of art.
It's a Fresco located
in Milan, Italy,
and has been the
object of analysis
by cryptographers for
many, many centuries.
As one of the most famous
works of art in the world
and because it's
attached to a wall,
this painting cannot be sold.
In fact, it's priceless.
This painting seems to house
so many inscriptions in it
that, in fact, it's become the
subject of mainstream media
and films for many years.
Dan Brown's account
in "The Da Vinci Code"
is one example of this.
"Holy Blood, Holy
Grail" also points us
in a similar direction,
hidden inscriptions
inside the Last Supper painting.
The first of these that
everyone iconically remembers
is that what we all
believed was John
the apostle sitting to the
right of Jesus was not,
in fact, John the
apostle at all.
In his very hermaphroditic
sort of garb and look,
John is actually the
representation many
believe to be Mary Magdalene.
One of the things
that we notice is
that there is a void space
between Jesus and Mary
Magdalene.
Now Jesus has clearly
a symbol of what
looks to be an upside
down triangle represented
as the divine feminine.
What I realized is that
the inverted triangle
of The Last Supper also
carries the exact same angular
reference of 51.843 degrees.
Is this yet again pointing
us to the Giza Plateau?
What we find here also is
other inscriptions deeply
hidden within this
enigmatic painting.
Another example that we can see
here is that the face of Peter
the apostle, who strangely
has his hand down the blouse
of Mary Magdalene.
And his right hand
seems to be holding
in a contorted
position, a knife.
And who is it that's sitting
in between Peter and Mary
Magdalene?
That's none other
than Judas himself.
In fact, you can see him
holding his 30 pieces of silver
in a small bag.
Why would it appear
as though Peter
is seeming to conspire
in some way, shape,
or form with Mary Magdalene?
And why is it that she's leaning
in to listen to his whisper?
What would they have
to whisper about?
And the face, there's something
with the face of Peter also
that seems to be
drawing attention.
Weren't all the apostles
roughly the same age as Jesus?
When Jesus was crucified,
he was widely known
to have been 33 years old.
And yet we see the face of
Peter as being a man probably
in his late 40s or early 50s,
having almost all gray, even
white hair.
But is there something else that
we can notice about his face?
Well, if we look at a
self-portrait of Leonardo da
Vinci from a similar period
but later in his life,
we'll notice that the face
of Leonardo da Vinci himself
in his own self-portrait
matches the face of Peter
the apostle, who later became
the head of the entire church.
And is the knife that's
being held behind his back
a knife held by his hand?
Or rather is he holding the
wrist of Mary Magdalene?
These questions and more were
the subject of our analysis.
We also looked at the
back wall, noticing
that there were many other
encryptions that somehow relate
to other prominent places and
none other than the King's
Chamber itself.
>>: Prior to visiting the
Great Pyramid of Giza in 2018,
Robert Grant intuitively
sketched two particular Greek
letters in his notebook,
as if subconsciously making
connections between the King's
Chamber and the Last Supper
that were yet to be discovered.
>>: When I arrived in
Egypt, I looked down while
in the King's Chamber.
I noticed the presence
of what looked
to be two letters, the
alpha and the omega.
So, an alpha and omega
on the sarcophagus
of the King's Chamber?
Isn't the pyramid famously
devoid of any writing
or hieroglyphics?
And for thousands
of years hasn't
this room been frequented by
millions of people potentially?
Let's not forget this is
the most studied building
on the planet.
It was the tallest building in
the world for well over 4,000
years, and the King's
Chamber is the most prominent
of the chambers within
the Great Pyramid.
How is it even possible
that this could not
have been seen before?
And is there
anything that relates
to the Last Supper that might
point us in the same direction?
You'll note that
underneath the table,
you can see the feet of
several of the apostles.
Some of them are
wearing sandals.
And you'll notice
as well that if you
try to look for
the feet of Jesus,
you will not be able to
see the feet of Jesus
because they are
obstructed by what
looks to be the upper doorway
of some sort of portal
in and out of the chapel
where the Last Supper
painting is housed.
But what's also
interesting about this
is that when we notice the
location of that portal--
and if we believe
art historians,
they say that later
in the 17th century,
a doorway was cut into the wall
of this very famous painting.
This doesn't really
seem to hold water
for me because Leonardo da Vinci
was famous in his lifetime.
In fact, this was a very famous
Fresco that the King of France
himself made particular mention
of in historical records.
So why would the
owners or the people
that were taking
care of as caretakers
of this important place
on hallowed ground
have cut a doorway, obstructing
the painting of Leonardo da
Vinci?
Potentially even then known
as one of the greatest
artists of all time.
>>: If in fact the doorway was
not cut into the Fresco years
later, but had always been
there as Robert Grant suggests,
then the question arises, did
Leonardo da Vinci integrate
this door into his masterpiece?
And if so, what is
the significance
of this possible encryption?
>>: So when I started to notice
that the other proportions
of the room of the King's
Chamber were relative
to the Last Supper painting and
vice versa, I started to think,
are there other inscriptions
that might be hidden inside
the walls of The Last Supper
painting that are showing us
and pointing us back to
the King's Chamber itself?
>>: What Robert Grant
realized is that the placement
of the alpha and the omega
on the rim of the sarcophagus
within the King's Chamber
are proportionate to Jesus,
the alpha, and Mary
Magdalene, the omega,
within the Last Supper.
>>: And when we
place an overlay,
the exact position of the
sarcophagus in its original
position would occupy exactly
the doorway that is obstructing
the feet of both Jesus
and Mary Magdalene.
And we'll also notice
that the proportions when
we place precisely the
line of the ceiling
against the back wall, which
would reference what we refer
to as the Western Wall
of the Great Pyramid,
is precisely pointing to the
same proportional dimensions
so that the entire
table in perspective
could be viewed as being part
of the Last Supper scene.
Is this telling us something
more about the windows
and portals and
tapestries that are
located within the Last
Supper painting itself?
Of course, we also noticed that
the location in the Last Supper
painting of both Jesus
and Mary Magdalene
also conforms precisely to the
golden number and golden cut,
1.618 versus 1.
Interesting as well that
again these proportions
are matched in the alpha
omega that I discovered
on the rim of the
sarcophagus, which
is exactly 5.6 inches wide.
The King's Chamber
is 31.415926 meters.
And the square root of that
number, which is pi times 10,
turns out to be 5.605 inches.
5.605 squared
equals the dimension
of the perimeter of the
King's Chamber room itself.
Interestingly as well, the serif
or the peak of the letter A
is precisely at the 33rd
inch of the 89.62 inch
long sarcophagus.
I and my colleagues
note that is exactly
1 over the Euler number.
>>: Euler's number is best
known as the base for natural
logarithms and is used in
everything from explaining
exponential growth,
radioactive decay,
and calculating
compound interest.
>>: This is a very important
number as fundamental
as a transcendental pi.
In fact, if we take
both of those numbers
and we apply them together
in the relationship
of a tetrahedron
nested within a sphere,
we find that when we consider
that a tetrahedron nested
within a sphere would
have a displacement of 1/3
of the volume of the sphere
inside the tetrahedron
and 2/3 being outside
of the tetrahedron
nested within that sphere.
And we apply those same
proportions in a weighted
average calculation, what we
find is that pi times 2/3 plus
Euler number, which
is 2.718, times 1/3,
added together in a weighted
average calculation gives us
integer value 3.000.
Both of these numbers seem to be
boundary conditions for integer
value 3.
But why would we
have the Euler number
pointed to the alpha and omega
on the rim of the sarcophagus?
Advanced knowledge?
Additionally, in
the Vitruvian Man,
Leonardo da Vinci
left an area value
of the square that
didn't match the area
value of the circle, which
is pi, with a radius of 1.
Instead, he left us an encrypted
message for all to see,
which is that the area, if
we take the time to actually
measure it using the radius
value of one of the circle
turns out to be precisely
the Euler number.
200 years prior to this
purported discovery
of the Euler number
and its attributes.
Arguably the second most
important mathematical
constant to mathematicians
even of our day today.
What was Leonardo
trying to tell us?
What else can we see inside
the Last Supper painting?
Let's look a little bit closer
at the window behind Jesus.
If we look closely at
the pediment above Jesus,
immediately above him and
above the window behind him,
we'll notice an eye.
Not only is this
orientation showing us
and pointing to an
eye, but we're also
seeing that this is
an ancient symbol used
in Freemasonry
and Rosicrucianism
as an all seeing eye.
But in Egyptian mythology
and history, we know better.
This eye is the eye
of Ra, god of the sun.
So, quite fitting, in fact,
that it's above, immediately
above the son of God.
But in esotericism,
this goes deeper
to explain the separation
between the conscious mind,
which is acting for us like
a sun to the outside world,
and the subconscious
mind is the missing eye.
But it's the eye that's
always there but not shown
in this outward world.
This eye is referred
to the eye of Horus.
Now, going back into
Egyptian mythology
and the story of Osiris.
Osiris had quite a conflict
and battle with Seth.
And Seth was able
to defeat Osiris
and, in fact, he cut
him into 14 parts.
And as he cut him into
14 parts, of course,
his son Horus wanted to avenge
the death of his father.
Horus took on a
battle with Seth.
And in that battle,
Horus lost his left eye.
It was plucked out as
the mythology tells us
in the Egyptian pantheon.
This plucking out of
the left eye of Horus
could be pointing to
something more significant.
And in esoteric
circles, it actually
represents the loss of
our intuitive sight.
The loss of the feminine,
which this eye which is often
referenced as the eye of Thoth.
Because it was restored
eventually by Thoth.
Horus had lost his
left eye, went to Thoth
and asked Thoth to
repair it for him.
And Thoth used magic
to repair the eye.
So often this eye is referred
to as the eye of Thoth.
The two eyes of Horus, the
right eye being the eye of Ra
and the left eye being
the eye of Thoth.
Represented by the moon,
intuition, the feminine, that
which might be in a
mathematical sense irrational
and merging it together with the
linear lines of the rational.
The conscious mind taking
over the personification
of our own persona and ego.
And the unconscious
or subconscious mind
being represented
by this eye that
was missing and plucked out.
So where is this eye of Horus?
Maybe we need to turn to yet
another da Vinci painting
to see where this
might connect us
back to this eye of
Horus that's the left eye
and often referred to
as the eye of Thoth.
>>: The clues to locate the
eye of the Thoth may be found
in another da Vinci masterpiece,
possibly inspired by a famous
woman of royalty who once
lived with Leonardo da Vinci.
The controversial wife of
King Henry VIII, Anne Boleyn.
>>: Anne Boleyn.
Anne Boleyn was known as one
of the most enchanting women
of the day.
From 1516 until 1519, Leonardo
da Vinci lived in the same home
as Anne Boleyn.
What had happened was
King Francis of France
had conquered Milan
and the Sforza family.
And when he went to
Milan, he immediately
asked to go into the
chapel, and they did not
want it to be destroyed.
He wanted to see this very
famous Fresco by Leonardo da
Vinci.
da Vinci was, of course, still
alive, in his aging years.
He was asked by King Francis
to move into his palace
to spend the rest of his
days helping to design
an ambitious new castle.
So he recruited him to do so,
and Leonardo moved everything
in his life at that
time out of Vinci
to Chateau d'Amboise, which
was the seat at the time
of the French court.
Anne Boleyn happened to
eventually enchant King Henry
VIII so much that he left his
first wife in a period of time
that this was expressly
forbidden unless granted
an annulment from the
Pope of Rome himself,
which the Pope refused to grant
to the King of England, Henry
VIII.
So Henry VIII was able
to finally divorce her
by establishing his own new
church the Church of England,
which is today the
Episcopal Church.
Anne Boleyn later
became the mother
of Elizabeth I.
Elizabeth I, who was
one of the greatest and longest
reigning monarchs of Great
Britain since that time.
Only eclipsed today
by Elizabeth II.
Anne Boleyn was
also famously tried
for having had an adulterous
affair with another man
while she was
married to the king.
The king used that
as the impetus
to cut off her head famously.
But Anne Boleyn lived
in the same house
in her late teenage years
as Leonardo da Vinci.
And today, we believe that
there's a painting that
represents their meeting.
And that painting
is referred to today
as La Belle Ferronniere,
the iron maker's daughter.
Now, as we look
at this painting,
we'll notice some
prominent things about it.
First of all, it has a
very dark background,
almost like the night sky.
And as we look at it, we'll
also notice that her part
seems to be very significant.
It represents an inverted T
or tau cross, another symbol
of Rosicrucian encryption.
Additionally, we
also notice that she
has what looks to be
some sort of amber gem
right over her forehead,
right between her eyes,
not far from where
we'd expect to see
like a bindi in an Indian person
who is representing their Ajna
chakra, their third eye.
We also notice
that the light that
is caressing the
strands of her hair,
adjacent to her
part line, actually
looks very similar to an iris.
Can we also see that the hair
and the light bouncing off
of the strands of her hair
adjacent to her part line
are actually forming the lines
of the iris of this eye that
is surrounding her
head in the darkness?
Because of the
orientation of the eye,
we notice that of
course it is a left eye.
And if we place this
painting immediately
adjacent to the
Last Supper scene,
is this the missing
eye of Horus that we
find on this female
archetype in Anne Boleyn,
a famous character
in history who
happened to live in the
same home as Leonardo da
Vinci for three years
prior to his death?
Is Leonardo pointing
us yet again
to this merger of heart,
brain consciousness?
We'll also notice
on the back wall,
there appear to be many
hidden inscriptions.
You could see a lantern.
You can also see script writing.
And you can also see what looks
to be the profile of a lion.
On the left side, we'll also
notice a letter A prominently
above the tapestries that is on
the left wall as we look at it.
But can we find
other things as well
that are hidden into this
painting that might actually
point us like a map to other
things inside of the King's
Chamber itself?
Let's first look to see if
we can find the eye of Ra
on the back wall of
the King's Chamber
behind the sarcophagus
on the Western Wall.
In the exact same
location when we
mirror match the
precise location
of the seam between the
ceiling and the back wall,
crossing over two
stones, and you
can see the line
of the entire eye
and also what looks to be
almost like a yin-yang iris
inside that eye on the same
location of the back wall.
The King's Chamber,
famously devoid
of any markings or writings,
now has yielded up to us
an alpha omega on the rim.
We also found a compass not far
from the alpha omega pointing
out degree references,
and now we're
seeing that the back wall
of the King's Chamber
is matching up with
what is painted
more than 500 years ago
into the Fresco in Milan
by Leonardo himself.
What other things can we
find in this painting?
On the right wall, we
can see the faint letters
of alpha A, written in a script
from the period, Renaissance
period script alpha Q, W.
W is a lowercase omega.
Alpha, chi, omega.
The Last Supper painting,
just like the Vitruvian Man
painting, houses
within it hidden
inscriptions that Leonardo da
Vinci more than 500 years ago
left to us to find through time.
Representing this
very ancient symbology
of balancing the
square and the circle,
finding the balance between
the masculine and the feminine
and bringing together polarity
into unity consciousness.
Merging the rational mind with
the unconscious creativity
that is resonant within
achievement of the heart,
brain, mind and consciousness.
Could Leonardo da Vinci be
pointing us to a deeper hidden
esoteric wisdom teaching?
Join us for our
next episode where
we're going to go deeper
into this great mystery
to understand what
it means for us.
[THEME MUSIC]